---
layout: page
slide_id: 4
---
## Complete Program
### Second Workshop on Model-Driven Engineering Tools, 15 October 2018, Copenhagen, Denmark
<br />

|Time &nbsp;   &nbsp;          | Program &nbsp; | 
----------------------- | -------------- |
<br/><br/><br/><strong>9 - 9:15 </strong> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;   &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    | <strong>Welcome and Intro</strong> <br /> Mojtaba Bagherzadeh, Francis Bordeleau, Juergen Dingel, Michalis Famelis, Antonio Garcia-Dominguez, Raquel Araujo de Oliveira, Ernesto Posse, Ed Seidewitz, Bran Selic| 
<strong>9:15 - 10:30 </strong>    | <strong>Session: Keynote</strong> <br /> <medium> &#x2219; Mattias Mohlin</medium>  <br/> <small> Mattias is a senior software architect at HCL Technologies Sweden. He has worked with the development of modelling tools for 20 years, and has for many years worked in close cooperation with big industrial users of such tools. Currently he is working on modelling tools for development of real-time and IoT applications, and also web-based tools for publishing and collaboration around models. When he is not thinking about modelling tools, he enjoys going on long bicycle rides, hiking, and spending time with the family. </small><br />[Developing a Modeling Tool Someone Wants to Use: Challenges, trends and solutions for how to develop modeling tools that people actually can and want to use]() <br/><small> Developing a comprehensive modeling tool requires big effort and there can for sure be many technical challenges in its implementation. However, as the tool matures and gets more widely adopted by users, a set of new challenges arise. These are not so much related to the actual tool implementation, but more to questions around enabling the users to successfully use the tool. <br/> In this talk I will share my experiences from development of modeling tools during the last 20 years. How has the focus of the industry shifted during these years, from the technical problems a tool should solve to an increased focus on "softer" issues such as usability, documentation and general user enablement? How has the introduction of new agile development methodologies helped tool vendors create better modeling tools? And what techniques can be used to learn more about the tool users, and their needs? These are some examples of questions that are very relevant for anyone that wants to develop a modeling tool that someone wants to use.</small> | 
<strong>10:30 - 11:00 </strong> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;          | <strong>Coffee Break</strong> | 
<br/><br/><strong>11:00 - 12:30 </strong> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;       | <strong>Session: Research papers</strong> <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Romina Eramo, Alfonso Pierantonio and Michele Tucci. </medium> <br /> [ Improved traceability for bidirectional model transformations ]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Hamza El Baccouri, Goulven Guillou and Jean-Philippe Babau. </medium> <br /> [ Robotic system testing with AMSA framework ]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Roberto Rodriguez-Echeverria, Javier Luis Canovas Izquierdo, Manuel Wimmer and Jordi Cabot. </medium> <br /> [ An LSP infrastructure to build EMF language servers for web-deployable model editors ]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Jakob Pietron, Alexander Raschke, Michael Stegmaier, Matthias Tichy and Enrico Rukzio. </medium> <br /> [ A study design template for identifying usability issues in graphical modeling tools]() <br/> | 
<strong>14:30 - 16:00 </strong> &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;    &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;       | <strong>Session: Challenge problem</strong> <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Jakob Høgenes and Brice Morin. </medium> <br /> [ Implementing the MDETools'18 challenge with ThingML]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Levi Lucio, Sudeep Kanav, Andreas Bayha and Johannes Eder. </medium> <br /> [ Controlling a virtual rover using AutoFOCUS3 SHM]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Karim Jahed. </medium> <br /> [SHM An evaluation of Papyrus-RT in solving the leader-follower challenge problem SHM]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Joel Greenyer, Michael Bar-Sinai, Gera Weiss, Aviran Sadon and Assaf Marron. </medium> <br /> [SHM Modeling and  programming a leader-lollower challenge problem with scenario-based toolsSHM]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Timothy Lethbridge and Abdulaziz Algablan. </medium> <br /> [SHM Applying Umple to the rover control challenge problem: A case study in model-driven engineering SHM]() <br/> <medium> &#x2219; Keith Brown. </medium> <br /> [SHM Navigating the rover with xtUML SHM]()| 
<strong>16:00 - 17:30 </strong> &nbsp;  | <strong>Session: Panel and discussion</strong> | 